docs/index.rst, before:

*****
Nengo
*****

Nengo is a Python library for building and simulating
large-scale brain models using the methods of the
`Neural Engineering Framework
<http://compneuro.uwaterloo.ca/research/nef.html>`_.
Nengo can create sophisticated neural simulations
with sensible defaults in few lines of code::

    import nengo
    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    with nengo.Network() as net:
        sin_input = nengo.Node(output=np.sin)
        # A population of 100 neurons representing a sine wave
        sin_ens = nengo.Ensemble(n_neurons=100, dimensions=1)
        nengo.Connection(sin_input, sin_ens)
        # A population of 100 neurons representing the square of the sine wave
        sin_squared = nengo.Ensemble(n_neurons=100, dimensions=1)
        nengo.Connection(sin_ens, sin_squared, function=np.square)
        # View the decoded output of sin_squared
        squared_probe = nengo.Probe(sin_squared, synapse=0.01)

    with nengo.Simulator(net) as sim:
        sim.run(5.0)
    plt.plot(sim.trange(), sim.data[squared_probe])
    plt.show()

Yet, Nengo is highly extensible and flexible.
You can define your own neuron types and learning rules,
get input directly from hardware, drive robots,
and even simulate your model on a completely
different neural simulator.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   getting_started
   examples
   user_guide
   dev_guide

* :ref:`genindex`

Commit message:

Minor documentation improvements
- Remove some unnecessary references to NEF
- Update README to have same intro as doc index
- Rework sidebar
- Change "pre-built" networks to "reusable"
- Fix broken NEF summary link
- Fix typo in changelog

docs/index.rst, after:

*****
Nengo
*****

Nengo is a Python library for building and simulating
large-scale neural models.
Nengo can create sophisticated
spiking and non-spiking neural simulations
with sensible defaults in a few lines of code::

    import nengo
    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    with nengo.Network() as net:
        sin_input = nengo.Node(output=np.sin)
        # A population of 100 neurons representing a sine wave
        sin_ens = nengo.Ensemble(n_neurons=100, dimensions=1)
        nengo.Connection(sin_input, sin_ens)
        # A population of 100 neurons representing the square of the sine wave
        sin_squared = nengo.Ensemble(n_neurons=100, dimensions=1)
        nengo.Connection(sin_ens, sin_squared, function=np.square)
        # View the decoded output of sin_squared
        squared_probe = nengo.Probe(sin_squared, synapse=0.01)

    with nengo.Simulator(net) as sim:
        sim.run(5.0)
    plt.plot(sim.trange(), sim.data[squared_probe])
    plt.show()

Yet, Nengo is highly extensible and flexible.
You can define your own neuron types and learning rules,
get input directly from hardware,
build and run deep neural networks,
drive robots, and even simulate your model
on a completely different neural simulator
or neuromorphic hardware.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   getting_started
   user_guide
   examples
   contributing
   Nengo ecosystem <https://nengo.ai/projects.html>
   license

* :ref:`genindex`
