docs/networks.rst, before:

********
Networks
********

Networks are an abstraction of a grouping of nengo objects
(Nodes, Ensembles, Connections).
Like all abstractions, this helps with code-reuse and maintainability.
You'll find the documentation for the various pre-built networks below.

Building your own network can be a great way to encapsulate
parts of your model, making your code easier to understand,
easier to re-use, and easier to share.
The following examples will help you to build your own networks:

.. toctree::

   examples/network_design
   examples/network_design_advanced

You may also find the following documentation on the ``config`` system
useful:

.. toctree::

   examples/config


Ensemble Array
==============

.. autoclass:: nengo.networks.EnsembleArray
   :members:

Action Selection
================

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.BasalGanglia

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Thalamus

Working Memory
==============

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.InputGatedMemory

Product
=======

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Product

Circular Convolution
====================

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.CircularConvolution

Integrator
==========

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Integrator

Oscillator
==========

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Oscillator

Commit message:

Reorganize and flesh out Nengo API docs
By using the `default-role` sphinx directive, we can now safely do
what we originally wanted to do, which is use syntax like
`nengo.Ensemble` to refer to ensembles, which will render in
fixed-width font and link to the ensemble documentation.

Note that doing `nengo.Ensemble` will print 'nengo.Ensemble'. To print
'Ensemble' but keep the linkage, you can either:

1. use `~nengo.Ensemble`, which can point to anything and only keep the
   leaf of that hierarchy ('Ensemble' in that case)

2. use `.Ensemble`, which will search all of the API included in the
   documentation for something called 'Ensemble', and print it as such.
   This is probably the preferred solution in most cases, but note that
   it cannot be used in ambiguous cases (e.g., if we had both a
   `nengo.ensemble.Ensemble` and a `nengo.utils.ensemble.Ensemble`).

Other changes:

- Moved the simulator / builder docs to the user section of the docs
- Renamed files from user / dev API to frontend / backend API
- Added some networks and examples that weren't in the docs yet
- Added SPA documentation

docs/networks.rst, after:

********
Networks
********

.. default-role:: obj

Networks are an abstraction of a grouping of Nengo objects
(i.e., `.Node`, `.Ensemble`, `.Connection`, and `.Network` instances,
though usually not `.Probe` instances.)
Like most abstractions, this helps with code-reuse and maintainability.
You'll find the documentation for the various pre-built networks below.

Building your own network can be a great way to encapsulate
parts of your model, making your code easier to understand,
easier to re-use, and easier to share.
The following examples will help you to build your own networks:

.. toctree::

   examples/network_design
   examples/network_design_advanced

You may also find the following documentation on the ``config`` system
useful:

.. toctree::

   examples/config

.. autoclass:: nengo.networks.EnsembleArray

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.BasalGanglia

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Thalamus

.. autoclass:: nengo.networks.AssociativeMemory

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.CircularConvolution

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Integrator

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Oscillator

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.Product

.. autofunction:: nengo.networks.InputGatedMemory
